step	element	intro	position
1	#cohortInput	As an effort to serve and promote collaboration with diabetes researchers outside of nPOD, the cohort tool provides an easy interface to match an outside independent cohort (CohortX) with nPOD. However, investigators with nPOD cases can also use it to match to other nPOD cases (make sure the checkbox on the right is unchecked from the default). Click “Next” to load the demo cohort dataset.	bottom
2	#nPODInput	After uploading the CohortX data, select the kind of nPOD matches desired. In one use case, you might have a set of T1D cases and want to find non-diabetic “negative controls” from nPOD. In another use case, you might want to match your set of T1D cases to nPOD’s T1D cases to use as positive controls or a validation cohort. The demo will proceed with the latter use case.	right
3	#npodgraph	The nPOD graph (a hybrid parallel coordinates plot) provides a quick visual summary of nPOD resources and the covariate data available for matching. Covariates are categorical and continuous demographic and clinical variables, some with missing data. Covariates with more missing data work less well for matching. Hover on a node in a categorical axis to see additional distribution information.	bottom
4	#matchUI-container	The match parameters UI provides an intuitive way to see how the two cohort datasets are harmonized and parameterized for matching. In this demo, use the UI to select “Age”, “Sex” and “BMI”, then click “Match”.	right
5	#matchResult	A preview of the match results is shown here. The full table of match results can be downloaded using the “Export” button. To see summary statistics of the match groups, choose the other tab or click “Next”. 	right
6	#matchResult	This tab displays the match statistics output. For example, …	right
7	#matchAttributes	Many of the nPOD cases have been richly characterized through nPOD’s various investigations. While these additional attributes are not available to use for matching, knowing that a particular attribute has been measured and being able to view even partial data could be useful. For more information about the particular attribute, e.g. to contact the authors for clarification or collaboration, use the data dictionary in the “Get Data” module.	left
8	#matchPlot	There are several ways to view the cohorts depending on the selected attributes. When they are describing the same or nearly the same concept or process but were not measured with the same scale or method, the cohorts are compared side by side in separate plots. The starting example shows… However, it’s possible that the data can be on the same scale through a mapping or normalization function. Check “Plot on same scale” and enter in “ “. This will be applied on CohortX data values.	top
