step	element	intro	position
1	#npodgraph	The nPOD graph (a hybrid parallel coordinates plot) provides a quick visual summary of nPOD resources and the covariate data made available for matching. The covariates include standard demographic and clinical variables such as age, sex and BMI, and ones of special interest to diabetes/autoimmune disease research such as autoantibody combination/count and HLA risk scores (coming soon). Note that covariates with more missing data work less well for matching. Hovering on a node of a categorical axis gives an additional breakdown of cohort composition. Overall, this figure is meant to give a sense of the capabilities and limitations of matching with the nPOD cohort. Click “Next” to learn how you would get started with your cohort data.	auto
2	#cohortInput	As an effort to serve and promote collaboration with diabetes researchers outside of nPOD, by default the cohort matching tool provides an easy interface to match an outside independent cohort (“CohortX”) with nPOD. However, investigators with nPOD cases can also use it to match to other nPOD cases (make sure the checkbox on the right is unchecked from the default). The uploaded data also needs to be prepared as described in “data requirements”, which contains an example cohort dataset <code>ExampleCohort2020</code>. Type this into the cohort name/label field to load the dataset for the next steps, or simply click “Next”.	auto
3	#nPODInput	After uploading CohortX data, the type of nPOD matches desired can be specified. The two most common use cases are probably: 1) you have a set of T1D cases and would like non-diabetic matches from the nPOD pool to represent <em>negative controls</em>, or 2) you have a set of T1D cases and would like to get nPOD T1D matches to represent <em>positive controls or a validation cohort</em>. The demo will proceed with the second use case.	right
4	#matchParameters	The match parameters UI provides an intuitive way to see how the two cohort datasets are harmonized and parameterized for matching. The selection of course depends on the matching use case. In this demo, use the UI to select “Age”, “Sex” and “BMI”, then click “Match”.	right
5	#matchResult	A preview of the match results is shown here. The full table of match results can be downloaded using the “Export” button. To see summary statistics of the match groups, choose the other tab or click “Next”. 	right
6	#matchResult	This tab displays the match statistics output. For example, …	right
7	#matchAttributes	Many of the nPOD cases have been richly characterized through nPOD’s various investigations. These other attributes are not considered covariates for matching, but they can distinguish cases (“subtyping”) on some dimension. Knowing that a particular attribute has been measured and being able to view even partial data could be useful. For more information about the particular attribute, e.g. to contact the authors for clarification or collaboration, use the data dictionary in the “Get Data” module.	left
8	#matchPlot	There are several ways to view the cohorts depending on the selected attributes. When they are describing the same or nearly the same concept or process but were not measured with the same scale or method, the cohorts are compared side by side in separate plots. The starting example shows… However, it’s possible that the data can be on the same scale through a mapping or normalization function. Check “Plot on same scale” and enter in “ “. This will be applied on CohortX data values.	top
